Listens on activity who will be performing
queries assessing the Postgres database.
First, will open a terminal window and
start the Postgres shell.
Next, we will look at table and
column definitions in database.
Who’s in query the content
of the buy-clicks table?
And see how to do this query, but filter
specific rows and columns from the table.
Next, we will perform average and
some aggregation operations
on a specific column.
And finally,
we will see how to combine two tables
by joining them on a single column.
Let's begin.
First, click on the terminal
icon at the top of the toolbar
to open a Terminal window.
Next, let's start the Postgres
shell by running psql.
The Postgres shell allows us to
enter queries and run commands for
the postgres database.
We can see what tables are in
the database by running \d.
This says that there are three
tables in the database,
adclicks, buyclicks and gameclicks.
We could use \d table name to see
the definition of one of these tables.
Let's look at the definition of buyclicks,
we enter \d buyclicks.
This shows that there's seven
columns in the database.
These are the column names and here's
the data type for each of the columns.
Now let's look at the contents
of the buyclicks table.
We can query the contents by running
the command select * from buyclicks;.
The select says that
we want to do a query.
The star means we want to
retrieve all the columns and
from buyclicks says,
which table to perform the query from.
And finally, all commands in Postgres
shell need to end with a semicolon.
When we run this command we see
the contents of the buyclicks table.
Column header is at the top and
the contents are below.
Again hit Space to scroll through
the contents, and hit Q when we're done.
Now, let's view the contents
of only two of the columns.
Let's query only the price and
the user id from the buyclicks table.
To do this we run select price,
userid from buyclicks.
This command says,
we want to query only the price and
userid columns from the buyclicks table
When we run this,
We only get those two columns.
We can also perform queries that
just select certain rows and
meet a certain criteria.
For example,
let's make a query that only shows
the rows containing the price over $10.
You can do this by running select price,
userid from buyclicks where price > 10.
This query says, we only want to see
the price and userid columns from
the buyclicks table where the value in the
price column has a value greater than 10.
We run this, we see that we always
have price values greater than 10.
The SQL language has a number of
aggregation operations built into it.
For example,
we can take the average price by running,
select avg(price) from buyclicks.
This command will show the average price
from all the data in the buyclicks table.
Another aggregate operation is sum.
We can see the total price by running,
select sum(price) from buyclicks.
We can also combine two tables
by joining on a common column.
If you recall we have three
tables in our database adclicks,
buyclicks and gameclicks.
We look at the description the definition
of adclicks buy running \d adclicks.
You can see that it also
has a column called userid.
Let's combine buyclicks and
adclicks based on this common column.
You can do this by running, select adid,
buyid, adclicks.userid from adclicks join
buyclicks on adclicks.userid
= buyclicks.userid
This query says,
we want to just see the adid, buyid and
userid columns, and
we want to combine the adclicks table,
the buyclicks table, and
we will be combining them on
the userid column and
it's common in both those tables.
When we run it,
you see just the three columns.